As a roboticist, you will certainly be interested in mapping your home,
office, or backyard with the help of your robot.
Then, you'll want to operate your robot inside
the mapped environment by keeping track of its position and orientation.
To do so, you have a wide choice of
localization algorithms you could implement ranging from extended Kalman filter,
to Marco, to Monte Carlo, and finally, Grid.
The Monte Carlo Localization algorithm, or MCL,
is the most popular localization algorithms in robotics.
So, you might want to choose MCL and deploy it to your robot to keep track of its pose.
Now, your robot will be navigating inside its known map and
collecting sensory information using range finder sensors.
MCL will use these sensor measurements to keep track of your robot pose.
Many scientists refer to MCL as particle filter localization algorithm,
since it uses particles to localize your robot.
In robotics, you can think of a particle as a virtual element that resembles the robot.
Each particle has a position and orientation
and represent a guess of where your robot might be located.
These particles are re-sampled each time your robot moves and sense its environment.
Keep in mind that MCL is limited to local and global localization problem only.
So, you lose sight of your robot if someone hacks into it.